hi welcome to videojug I'm Russell Nash
I'm going to show you how to play the d7
now if we just recap first of all always
check that the guitars in tune so
remember we go up to the fifth fret here
first finger
now let's recap on the call of D
remember it was the triangle here we
play from the D string upwards
now the d7 very similar except I'm going
to call this the backward triangle so
we've got a forward triangle this way
and instead we're going to reverse the
triangle playing the first finger here
playing the seventh here
so it's a backward triangle let's recap
again from D
back was the d7 one more time so we get
D backward triangle d7 so now let's look
at a progression I'm going to go from D
to d7
- a G let's recap on the G and the
second thing that comes across into the
third fret here first fingers playing
here on the fifth string and then down
here we've got both fingers playing in
the third fret
the top two strings let's just listen to
that a second so we've got D D D seven
and I'm going to play a G and a bar G
seven if you listen to this it's not
very bluesy it's much more soulful if
you're familiar with different styles of
music you'll know what I mean
but really you can feel it's got much
more of a flow it's not as rigid as the
blues progression let's look at all
these chords in more detail this is a d
remember the triangle this is a d7 the
backward triangle and let's recap on
that G again and now let's look at the
g7 on the bar chord so I'm going to play
this for you one more time you join in
and try and keep up with me so we go one
two
keep enjoying yourself keep playing and
I'll see you next time on videojug
you